>> Scott Moss: All right, so we're back.
I hope everybody was able to create their
type definitions for their song and
playlist, based on what we did for
the user.
Again, there was no executing.
There was no test.
There was no pass or
fail associated with this task.
It was just to get you familiar
with writing in a GraphQL file.
Using the GraphQL syntax and starting off
from our Mongo, or our Mongoose Schemas.
So let's just look at what I have here,
so you can go ahead and
check out to the solution branch
to follow along if you want.
But let's see what I have for User.
So you'll see some extra stuff here,
this is not what we walked through,
here's some extra stuff.
I want to put this here so
we can talk about it.
It's easier for me to talk about it
than have you do it without any context.
So we have the type user
we pretty much did this.
I added two more fields to create it at or
update it at.
You might be thinking where
did those come from because
we haven't written any resolvers yet.
But actually,
those are gonna come from the database.
>> Scott Moss: I was gonna
sneeze, nevermind.
Wait, there it is.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, sorry.
So the database has a timestamps true
that we can pass in on the schema and
that just puts timestamps on
the database for us, the actual docs.
So that's where I get those from.
But if that was not there that's
totally fine this is GraphQL.
We just write a resolver and when we
get to resolver it's gonna make sense.
We will write a resolver that will tell
graphic url when somebody is asking for
the user type run this function that
will resolve the data that was created.
Like I said,
resolvers are like mini controllers.
We can write a function to resolve a data
on any level, not just for the entire
request, but for a type, for a field, for
anything we can write a resolver for.
And yeah, it's pretty cool.
So that's another way we
could have done it, but
it's going to be
automatically given to us.
Then I have this thing right here
called input I didn't talk about input,
but anybody wanna take a guess what it is?
>> Speaker 2: A variable?
>> Scott Moss: I guess in some way it is
a variable but
I don't wanna confuse it with the
variables you would pass in on a query.
This is on a schema level so
we're not actually using any data so
I wouldn't say it's a variable in
an effort not to confuse it with
what's happening on the query side.
But it does work like a variable.
It's actually.
>> Speaker 2: The structure for
the mutations?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
so it's the structure.
So when we did a mutation,
remember we had a pass in of variable,
and that variable had to
match some type of input?
That's what that is.
This input is describing what
the shape of the variable is.
On any type of courier mutation,
that's what it's saying.
So we haven't used this input yet,
but we will use it.
So, basically, the short answer is
an input is the same thing as a type, but
can be used in arguments.
It's the only thing that
Whenever you use arguments, with couriers
mutations, you can only use scholars or
inputs.
You cannot use types.
Even if I made a input that is
exactly the same as this type
I still can't use this type
in argument it'll break.
You can't you can't use a type in
argument it has to be an input.
So and
everything has to resolve to an input
inside a graphical arguments doesn't
matter how nested your structure is.
Doesn't matter if you
want an array of things,
if it's not an input, it will break.
And that sounds like, yeah, of course.
But there's some times where
you'll start writing queries.
And you might have an input where
it's like an array of users.
And you'll put a user in that array.
And it will be like, you can't do that.
And they'll give you some obscure
error and you won't know why.
It's because something in
there is not an input.
But it is instead a type
you need to make an input.
Even if it's the exact same field
you just gotta make it an input.
So it's very strict in a good way.
Any questions on this stuff?
>> Speaker 2: Can input contain a type?
>> Scott Moss: No it has to like for
instance let's say I want
this to have a user,.
I couldn't use that because user
is not an input, it's a type.
So everything has to resolve to an input.
So then I would have to go make
another input to describe this,
even though it could be
the same thing as this.
Yeah, it has to be.
[LAUGH] Yeah.
It's very strict.
I read it.
Like, when I was
first learning this stuff, I think I
was stuck on that for like three days.
I was just like, I don't get it.
I just don't get it, and it was that.
So I wanna help you avoid that problem.
Any other questions on this?
>> Speaker 2: We're using their tool
to write the schema, right?
To make it the syntax shorter?
We're not doing it in the string long way,
right?
>> Scott Moss: So, I guess,
there's sort of three
ways you could do it.
So there's the JavaScript way,
using GraphQL JS [COUGH] and
you would use objects
to create your scheme.
You would do something like this,
you'd come here and
you're like I'm making a new GraphQL
schemer We're not going to do that.
The second way is that you just use
a string inside of a JavaScript file.
And that is cool but
then you don't get syntax highlighting and
you dont' get all this crap
int he JavaScript file.
This is like an abstraction
on top of that method.
So basically we're using a graphql file,
which if you go look at the web pack
configuration, I have a loader set up for
GraphQL files that uses the raw loader,
which basically turns it into a string.
Raw loader is like a string,
it's just a give me this file as string.
So if I require this GraphQL
file anywhere in my app,
it's just going to read it as a string,
which allows us to use that string method.
So, yeah,
that's pretty much what's happening there.
So, Webpack's doing that for us.
This allows us to import graphql files.
But, again, we're on note so
if we were not using Webpack and
you still wanted to use
graphql files on note,
you could still do this,
just use the file system to load it up.
You could just use fs.
>> Scott Moss: Import fs from fs
which is file system and then you
can do file system.read file which
allows you to read any file and
read it as a stream.
So you can totally do that as
well if you're not using Webpack.
On the client you couldn't do that,
you would have to use a Webpack loader to
use in a separate file cuz you can't
read files in the client, right?
That's a security thing.
But yeah, good question,
Webpack's doing that.
>> Scott Moss: Any other questions
on this?
>> Speaker 2: How
do you write a comment in GraphQL?
>> Scott Moss: That's such
a good question.
That's such a good question, so comments.
So comments, they use the little hashtag
thing, and you can put anything you want.
But they have some significance.
When you put a comment in GraphQL,
that comment is going to be
the documentation for the thing that you
are commenting on inside a graphical.
So if I were to put a comment
on this ID right here and
I'm like, this is the user ID.
When I go to graphical and
click on the user type, for
its explanation it's gonna
say that comment right there.
So that's how you document your documents,
it's really cool, very very useful
we're actually using this extensively on
my company to generate documentation for
your documentation.
It's actually really cool.
So yeah, you can put that, pretty much
anything you can put it above this
whole type right here, and
be like this is a user.
And then when I go to graphical,
it'll be like, what is a user?
And then its definition like
this is a user, you'll see that.
And when we load graphical back up
you'll see what I'm talking about.
So, yeah, that's how you do comments.
Use them extensively.
All the stuff is generated for you.
It's pretty awesome.
Any other questions on this?
Cool.
Before I move on to the other files I just
want to take note of this syntax just one
more time and see how close it is to
JSON but obviously not the same as JSON.
It's not a validation but
it also is the same.
So notice there's really
like no comments here.
We don't need any comments here,
there's no equal signs anywhere.
But it's very similar to what you have
adjacent so I just want you to take note
of that and realize it's actually
not as difficult as it may seem.
It's just brand new.
It's very similar to JSON, it's just,
when I started learning this I
remember thinking this is just, what?
What is this?
And then I was like wait,
it's actually just kind of
like JSON minus some stuff.
So, it's not too bad.
So if we go look at the song GraphQL, for
my song type basically I have the ID.
I think every type
should have an ID on it,
unless you're resolving a type from
some source that doesn't have an ID.
But, I can tell you when you start
building out client apps with GraphQL,
if you're using stuff like Apollo,
they use the IDs by default to
cache your graphical data type.
If you don't have something
unique about that,
it can pretty much skip your cache every
time, and you kind of miss on that.
So, I would say probably
always use IDs if you can.
But sometimes you might be resolving data
for something that doesn't have an ID.
Right now we're resolving data from
my database which always has an ID.
But maybe you're resolving from some
thing somewhere else, I don't know.
Because you could resolve from anywhere
and maybe those things don't have IDs.
You should still probably find
some to unique identifier for
the thing you're resolving,
to have caching on your front end.
So I have a ID here,
title, URL, album, artist,
rating favorite, exactly the same
as the model that we created,
with the same restrictions.
>> Scott Moss: Does
everybody have something similar to this?
All right,
then I also have two inputs here.
So we're gonna get into inputs.
Again, but remember, inputs are literally
just types that we can use in arguments.
That is the only thing
that's special about them.
They're the same thing as types
that you can use in arguments.
But I wanna walk through why this input
looks very similar to the type song, but
slightly different in the naming of it.
So I have an input called updated song.
And the reason I call it updated song
because this is the variable name,
this is the input type that you'll have to
use when you want to update a song, right?
So if you just glance over the fields,
there are literally the exactly
the same as the type of song.
But remember inputs can only be used for
variables, I'm sorry inputs.
So we had to make another one.
And the other difference is there's
not requirements on any of this stuff.
Why is that?
Because I put requirements on these.
That means when you do an update
you have to update all this stuff.
I don't want you to do that.
The only requirement I need is the ID to
know what you're trying to update and
then, you pass in the field
that you want to update on.
I don't know what you're gonna update.
Maybe you're only gonna update the title.
Maybe you're only updating the artist,
I don't know.
So I'm not going to require any of them.
I'm only gonna require the one
thing that I do need, and
that's the ID to find the thing
that you're trying to update.
Everything else is not required.
Does that make sense?
All right.
And then on a new song,
some of these should have requirement
on them because some need a title.
So that should be required.
And a favorite, it also needs a favorite.
Has a default on it and
so it's totally fine.
We don't have to do anything
>> Scott Moss: The other special thing
about inputs that you can't do on type
is that you can set defaults on them.
So notice we have a default on favorite
here on the mongoose model on an input.
And only on an input.
You can also set defaults.
So I can say for this favorite one I
also want to set the default to false.
Like I said, equals false, like that.
This only works on inputs,
doesn't work on types.
So if you try to do this on a type,
it'll be like nah, not gonna happen.
I hardly ever use these.
I don't, for some reason I just
don't like doing this on this level.
I prefer doing database level.
So use them if you want to but
I prefer not to use default GraphQL.
Because it's like what
if your data is accessed
some other mechanism other than GraphQL.
What if you have to do some quick
data base insertion on the terminal.
And then you don't benefit from
those defaults because you just
bypassed GraphQL.
So I like to do it closer
to the source of the data,
which is the closest you
can get at the database.
So I'd rather do it there.
>> Scott Moss: Then again, you might
be doing mutations on something that has
nothing to do with storing data somewhere.
Maybe that's the case, I'm not sure.
So that's song, and
if we go to playlist, playlist,
let's pull up the model here,
playlist.model.
This one's pretty simple, so we have
a type, we have an ID, we have a title,
and then we have songs.
So this is one I said I didn't
really tell you about, but
if you did some looking probably figured
it out, I saw some people figure it out.
Let's talk about this.
So, we have a song here,
we know in Mongo that those songs are
going to reference an object ID, right?
An object ID is really a string.
This is a string that references a song.
So viewed, literally just did a one for
one match.
You might have came in here and
you might of said, there ID's,.right?
Because these are IDs in here.
And you would not be
wrong if you did that.
The only problem is you're probably not
gonna to get the desired result that
you're looking for.
You're not gonna be able to query
this playlist and then gimme all of
the songs on this playlist, and
then I want the titles for these songs.
That wouldn't work.
When you ask for songs on playlist
it give you in an array of strings,
an array of IDs.
Which is probably not what you want you
probably want back an array of songs so
what you would do you would use the song
type that you created over here.
There are in two separate files so
how do they know about each other.
Well when we join them together, grab the
thing that we're gonna be using, the tool,
is gonna build the whole scheme up
first and then it's gonna execute it.
So it's all in the same
context before it's executed.
So it's still gonna be fine.
It doesn't matter what order it was in,
which was first, which was last.
The whole thing gets loaded up and
then it executes.
So, this will know about
the sing when we run the query.
So by doing this now, it's going to
be our resolvers job to guarantee
when someone asks for a song that they
don't get back in the array of ID's.
Instead they get back an array of objects.
So remember yesterday I
talked about population,
how mongoose can populate things.
Like join tables on the fly,
that's what we're gonna have to do for
the songs array.
We're gonna say man, somebody asked for
a song on the playlist.
Now there's IDs.
Can we populate those IDs
to be actual song objects?
And make sure those song objects
match this data structure
because that's what it resolves to?
It sounds crazy right now but
I promise you gonna be so powerful,
you're gonna like what?
How do we do that?
It's gonna be really cool.
So that's how that works and you'll see.
It's very, very powerful and the way you
do it is very awesome in my opinion.
Any questions on that?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So
[COUGH]
>> Scott Moss: There's a lot of,
kinda boilerplate, very similar code.
And I know you mentioned at the outset
that you can do dynamic schema generation.
And that's more complex.
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Scott Moss: Would that fall under
what I've described here?
Or is that a little bit,
I don't how to describe it.
Ultimately, what I'm trying to drive
at is that instead of having to write
>> Speaker 2: Updated song and
new song inputs for every type.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a way to do that so
you don't have to.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, there is.
Yes.
In a short answer, yes.
It depends on.
So there are some plugins that will
literally read your Mongoose schemas and
generate everything for you,
because it's like a one for one.
So we can use those.
I don't wanna do them.
You can also do it yourself, because our
API is so simple, you can totally do it.
The way I would do it is,
I would just have a file like this,
that just has like a function,
that like takes in like type,
and then it just generates everything.
Because it's all the same, they all have
the same queries, the same mutations and
it just generates a type.
So you can totally do that but
yeah we're not gonna get to that.
Because there's so much you can do
with that, and so many edge cases.
But yeah, that's the beauty of GraphQL
is that you can do that per request.
So whenever a request comes in you
can say, this user is an admin,
this admin needs this schema.
Let me generate this schema.
And then because you generated new schema
you also generate those resolvers too.
And resolvers are functions
they are not strings.
So that's like a whole
nother thing right there.
So then you you gotta generate those
resolvers, very similar to how we
generated controllers yesterday, but
on the fly, then build your schema.
And then run the query
against that schema.
So you could totally do it, and then later
on today I could show you how I'm doing it
with the product that I'm working on cuz
we're doing the exact same thing but
on a whole other level.
But yeah, you could totally do that and
you can't really do that with rest.
You need a v2 for that,
[LAUGH] or v3, or whatever.
And then for
the input very similar to the type I think
the title yeah title should be required.
You can pass in new
songs here if you want.
And then favorite so it's a boolean.
Any questions on these stuff?
>> Speaker 2: So
there because it's an input you would be
>> Scott Moss: Required to update
the title anytime you update.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
Actually, that's right.
That's an update.
I thought it was a new input.
That's an updated playlist.
You're right.
It does need to be required on an update.
I thought that was new, it's updated.
On a new playlist input,
you totally would need it.
On an updated one, no,
you just give me id and whatever
else you pass I'll just figure out.
We'll write the resolver for this,
so you'll see it's pretty awesome.
Any questions on this before we move one.
All right, As you can tell I'm
really excited about GraphQL.
I've literally been working on GraphQL
like the advanced part of it for
the last eight weeks and it's all I
know so I'm really excited to talk
about this stuff and I'm like holding
back from going to crazy mode.
[LAUGH]